# PYCOM: Python DICOM Processing Toolkit for BEAMnrc/DOSXYZnrc.

PYCOM is a collection of DICOM processing tools coded in the Python programming 
language for assisting MC simulation using BEAMnrc/DOSXYZnrc using RT plans 
generated from a TPS system. It currently has tools: 

* pycom.py: generating input files automatically for BEAMnrc/DOSXYZnrc 
from DICOM RT Plans (DICOM RP) exported from a Treatment Planning System (TPS). 

* pycom_dose.py: converting the dose distribution generated by DOSXYZnrc 
in 3ddose format to DICOM RT Dose (DICOM RD) format so that it can be imported 
by a DICOM processing software.

* pycom_anon.py: anonymizing DICOM files for patient privacy. 

See comments in the files for the usage of the tools.

_**Note:**_
* _The current version was developed based on BEAMnrc version 2011_
* _Development under Python3 is in progress. Matching BEAMnrc version will be updated too._

---

This version is **under development** based on Python3. **Not finalized yet and for testing only**. 
Here are the steps for setting up a Python3 environment to run this package:

1. Install a latest Linux OS Ubuntu 24.04/26.04 or RHEL9/10. We use Ubuntu as the example base OS here.

2. Set up GIT

```
sudo apt install git
sudo apt install gh
gh auth login
gh repo clone https://github.com/lixinzhan/pycom.git
```

2. Run commands below to set up the Python2.7 virtual environment

```
sudo apt install python3
sudo apt install python3-venv
pytho3 -m venv pycom/venv3
```

3. Set up the PYCOM running environment

```
cd pycom
source rc.py3env
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
